A previous step we created our local git repository.
And in this step we'll try and connect our spring cloud config server to the local git repository.
So how do I connect spring cloud config server to the local git repository the firsr thing I would want to do is to
find the folder path of this.
You can do right click properties alt enter or command I and I would copy the location from here.
So I'll copy the location from here.
This is the location of the git hub repository in or it's the location of the local git hub repository.
What I can do over here in the application dot properties of spring cloud config server this is very important
from now one we have multiple application dot properties present.
So we have application dot properties and limits service in spring cloud config server so really be careful
about which application dot properties you are making changes in this one which we are changing is
spring cloud config server application dot properties.
You can look at the top over here in Eclipse spring cloud config server application dot properties
when you are in doubt you can check this down here and choose the appropriate file.
So what we want to do is we would want to configure the local repository local git repository for the
spring cloud conflict.
server how do we do that.
It's spring dot cloud config dot
server dot git dot URI over here we are using a local git depositary but actually you can give the git repository
which is present externally as well.
So over here we are giving the location of the local git repository.
One important thing that you need to remember is because there's a local git repository I need to use
a specific syntax.
So I would need to type in file colon double slash.
So make sure that you add this to your.
Path so this is the path to the folder that I copied in.
And this is the extra edition that I would need to make sure I would add it in.
So now I can save this and let's launch up our spring cloud config server right click.
Run as java application after the server has launched up I can go to the URL local host 8 8 8 8 if you
remembered it right.
It's 8 8 8 8 is what we configured as the spring cloud config server and it's local host 8 8 8 8.
The name of the service the name of the service is limits hyphen service.
This is exactly the name that we have given to the file in the git local reconfig repo so it limits hyphen
service so limitations hyphen service slash default.
When I type this in I get an error page.
Why am I getting this error page.
This one very important thing that we need to remember always when ever we create a spring cloud config
server you would need to enable this spring cloud config server.
How do they enable us spring cloud config server that's by going through the spring cloud config server
application class.
I mean that basically the class where this spring boot application annotation is present I'd go there and put in
another annotation enable config server.
You forget to add at enable config server and you would be worrying.
Why is the config server not really working so make sure that all the application class you have the
At Enable config server annotation added in.
Once you go to the URI localhost 8 8 8 8 limits service default you can see now that a set of property
values are being retrieved.
You can see the values which we have configure limit servies minium 8 and maximum 8 8 8.
Other than the minimum and maximum you can also see the name of the property file from which these values
are retrieved.
So you can see that this is a big limits.
service dot properties and the entire path to it you also have a few other values which are being retrieved
as part of the service response.
What we have done in this step is establish the connection between the spring cloud config server and
the git repository.
One of the important things about a spring cloud config server.
It's stored configuration for multiple services so I can store configuration for limits service currency
exchange service and currency calculations service.
And also it can store configurations for each of these services for different.
environments for example the limits service let's say it has four environments.
Dev QA stage and production we can store all the configurations related to all those for environments
using this spring cloud config server in the next
step we look at the details of how to do that until then bye bye.